# Theme overview

## Main

- Variables and settings from \*.ui_patterns.yml configurable from Drupal pattern and storybook controls.
- Single component entrypoint for both backend and frontend.
- Vite for build and storybook. Fonts/Assets/Chunks configured OOB.
- Storybook 7(beta) with new simple `Component Story Format 3`.
- Refreshed drupal breakpoints loader.
- Eslint, Stylelint, Yamllint in same style as drupal core does. With fix option.
- Favicon generator with `real-favicon`
- Svg sprite generator with `oslllo-svg-fixer`, `svgo`.
- Common plugin `caesar?ANY_NEW_NAME.js` for ui_patterns.yml serving in SB currently in storybook dir. Will be pushed to npm. Specs also needed.
- When front component NOT an ui_pattern it still uses same configuration file adn features. And CAN became pattern with one file rename.
- [ ] ThemeGenerator
- [ ] ComponentGenerator
- [ ] Documentation for processes and components.
- [ ] Usage of type: processed_text or media:image https://ui-patterns.readthedocs.io/en/8.x-1.x/content/patterns-definition.html#pattern-definitions

## Css

- Postcss with `postcss-nested`, `postcss-pxtorem`, `postcss-custom-media` with generated variables from `*.breakpoints.yml`,
- Using of vite aliases to import asset in css `@images`, `@fonts`. So import is simple:

```
src: url("@fonts/roboto-400.woff2") format("woff2");
```

- [ ] Linting with postcss. Not working.

## Js

- Splitted common chunks with vite/rollup.
- Usage of Drupal.behaviors and Drupal.once on both storybook and Drupal.
- drupalSettings.svgSpritePath and drupalSettings.breakpoints autogenerated on both SB and Drupal.
- Global drupalBehaviors.attach() on all Storybook pages.

## Twig

- All patterns twig cached in first SB load. So all `@include @atoms/icon/a-icon.html.twig` and `{% extends ... %}` works same. Only with namespaces.
- `drupal-twig-extensions/twig`, `drupal-attribute` so ~~mostly~~ all drupal functions work in SB aswell.

## Drupal

- Large community of https://www.drupal.org/project/ui_suite.
- Lot of modules which can extend functional.
- Libraries and settings applied automatically.
- Basic components will present in themegenerator.
